L2 l3 rebase (#5402)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/user-guide/building-assistants.rst

.. edit-link::

After following the basics of setting up an assistant in the `Rasa Tutorial <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/user-guide/rasa-tutorial/>`_, we'll

> now walk through building a basic FAQ assistant.

Reviewer: should this not say the original thing again? Since it's still in the same page. Let's discussing moving them to separate pages after this is merged

Author: sorry! thought I reverted that.

This bot should now be able to reply to the intents we defined consistently, and in any order.

For example, it should be able to do:

.. code-block:: bash

    Bot loaded. Type a message and press enter (use '/stop' to exit): 
    Your input ->  bye!
    Bye!
    Your input ->  thanks!
    No worries!
    Your input ->  hi!
    Hi
    Your input ->  goodbye
    Bye!
    Your input ->  thank you

>     No worries!

Reviewer: any reason we didn't go for a screenshot here btw?

Author: I wasn't sure if a screenshot of the commandline was appropriate, but can put it in if it would be better

Author: what do you think? does it look funny?

Reviewer: nah let's just leave it, it's fine!

     - faq

We’ll also need to add a `retrieval action <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/core/retrieval-actions/>`_,

> which takes care of sending the response predicted from the  ResponseSelector back to the user,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which takes care of sending the response predicted from the ResponseSelector back to the user,
```

`Retrieval Actions <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/core/retrieval-actions/>`_ page.

Using the features we described in this tutorial, you can easily build a context-less assistant.
When you’re ready to enhance your assistant with context, check out :ref:`tutorial-contextual-assistants`.

.. note::

>     Here's a minimal checklist of what you need to build a basic FAQ assistant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here's a minimal checklist of what we covered in this tutorial on building a basic FAQ assistant:
```

      - ``data/nlu.md``: NLU training data for ``faq/`` intents
      - ``data/responses.md``: responses associated with ``faq/`` intents
      - ``config.yml``: ``ReponseSelector`` in your NLU pipeline
      - ``domain.yml``: a retrieval action ``respond_faq`` and intent ``faq``
      - ``data/stories.md``: a simple story for FAQs

>       - ``test_stories.md``: E2E test stories for your FAQs

Reviewer: Can we make this more like "Create NLU training data for faq/ intents in your nlu.md file" - so it's more narrative, rather than just a list of files

Author: For a checklist doesn't it make sense to have it by file? since the tutorial is narrative already, it might be helpful to have it like this at the end. Also in the other sections, there's multiple changes per file, and it was a way to organise the changes

Reviewer: that makes sense yeah, but then maybe we should say "These are the files we modified during this tutorial" or something similar. Rather than saying "these are the steps we did". Then i'm ok with files :D

Author: Yeah that also makes sense, will change the wording

For this type of use case, we can use Forms and our FormPolicy. The `FormPolicy <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/core/policies/#form-policy>`_
works by predicting the form as the next action until all information is gathered from the user.

>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: what about this?

     - use_case

A story for a form is very simple, as all the slot collection form happens inside the form, and

> therefore doesn’t need to be covered in your stories. You just need to write stories showing when the form should be activated. For the sales form, add this story

Reviewer: sorry this also still has unaddressed changes from before...
```suggestion
therefore doesn’t need to be covered in your stories. You just need to write a single story showing when the form should be activated. For the sales form, add this story
```

Reviewer: can you double check that everything has actually gone in?

     - use_case

A story for a form is very simple, as all the slot collection form happens inside the form, and
therefore doesn’t need to be covered in your stories. You just need to write stories showing when the form should be activated. For the sales form, add this story
to your ``stories.md`` file:

.. code-block:: md

   ## sales form
   * contact_sales
       - sales_form                   <!--Run the sales_form action-->
       - form{"name": "sales_form"}   <!--Activate the form-->
       - form{"name": null}           <!--Deactivate the form-->

.. cssclass:: longtable

+----------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
|.. code-block:: md                |.. code-block:: md                    |
|                                  |                                      |
|   ## sales form                  |     <!--What's happening here-->     |
|      - sales_form                |     <!--Run the sales_form action--> |
|      - form{"name": "sales_form"}|     <!--Activate the form-->         |
|      - form{"name": null}        |     <!--Deactivate the form-->       |

> +----------------------------------+--------------------------------------+

Reviewer: why do we have both? I feel like just the first one is enough?

Author: that was an experiment I forgot to remove

However, you should make sure not to handle any unhappy paths inside the form. These
should be handled by writing regular stories, so your model can learn this behaviour.

.. note::

>     Here's a minimal checklist of what you need to do to handle business logic using a form action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here's a minimal checklist of what we covered in this section on handling business logic using a form action:
```

      - ``actions.py``: Define the form action
              - Define the ``required_slots``, ``slot_mappings`` and ``submit`` methods
      - ``data/nlu.md``: 
          - Add examples for an intent to activate the form
          - Add examples for an ``inform`` intent to fill the form
      - ``domain.yml``: 
          - Add all slots required by the form
          - Add ``utter_ask_{slot}`` responses for all required slots
          - Add your form action to the ``forms`` section 
          - Add all intents and entities from your NLU training data
      - ``data/stories.md``: 
          - add a story for the form
      - ``config.yml``: 
          - Add the ``FormPolicy`` to your policies
          - Add entity extractors & dimensions (according to which entities will fill your slots) to your pipeline

>       - ``endpoints.yml``: Define the ``action_endpoint``

Reviewer: same with this as in the previous version

Reviewer: did we want checklists like this for all other sections below as well?

Author: I'm putting them in - since these sections aren't quite so didactic, it gets a bit wordy. can remove it if its distracting

Reviewer: what do you mean? you're putting them into other sections as well?

Author: I did in the last commit - they're at the end of the unexpected input/failing gracefully/ML sections

Reviewer: ah ok i see!

Author: should they stay?

.. _handling-unexpected-user-input:

Handling unexpected user input
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All expected user inputs should be handled by the form we defined above, i.e. if the
user provides the information the bot asks for. However, in real situations, the user
will often behave differently.

> In this section we’ll go through various forms of

Reviewer: why did we move that?

Author: I moved examples in and out of that section a few times and missed a backspace

Don’t forget to add a few end to end stories to your ``test_stories.md`` for testing as well.

.. note::
    Here's a minimal checklist of  of files we modified to handle unexpected user input:

      - ``actions.py``: 
          - define ``action_greet``
      - ``data/nlu.md``: 
          - add training data for an ``explain`` intent
      - ``domain.yml``:
          - specify that intent ``greet`` should trigger ``action_greet_user`` in the ``intents`` section
          - add ``action_greet_user`` to the ``actions`` section
          - set the type of ``requested_slot`` to categorical 
              - add all the required slots from the ``sales_form`` as values
          - add the ``explain`` intent
          - add responses for contextual question interruptions (``explain``)
      - ``data/stories.md``: 
          - remove stories using mapped intents if you have them
          - add stories with FAQ interruptions in the middle of filling a form
          - add stories with contextual question interruptions  (``explain``) in the middle of filling a form
              - specify the value of ``requested_slot`` before the interruption

>               - the response to the interruption should match the value of ``requested_slot`` 

Reviewer: this checklist seems really long and complex... is there any way we could make it a bit more concise?

Author: how about now?

Author: how about now?

Out of scope intent
"""""""""""""""""""

> It is good practice to also handle questions you know your users may ask, but for which you don’t necessarily have an action 

Reviewer: hm i feel like i already commented on this? Should be "you don't necessarily have a user goal handled" yet or similar

Author: right

   * ask_job
     utter_job_not_handled

.. note::
    Here's a minimal checklist of files we modified to help our assistant fail gracefully:

      - ``data/nlu.md``: 
          - add training data for the ``out_of_scope`` intent
          - add training data for any specific out of scope intents that you want to handle seperately
      - ``data/stories.md``:
          - add stories for any specific out of scope intents that you want to handle seperately
      - ``domain.yml``: 
          - add the ``out_of_scope`` intent
          - add an ``utter_out_of_scope`` response
          - add any specific out of scope intents that you want to handle seperately

>           - add responses for any specific out of scope intents that you want to handle seperately

Reviewer: let's condense that into two bullet points

      - ``actions.py``: 
          - customise ``ActionDefaultAskAffirmation`` to suggest intents for the user to choose from
      - ``config.yml``: 
          - add the TwoStageFallbackPolicy to the ``policies`` section

>           - define the ``nlu_threshold`` for the TwoStageFallbackPolicy

Reviewer: can you make sure these checklists are consistently capitalised? Some are lowercase at the start, others uppercase. I already normalised it for the first two.

Reviewer: also, is the nlu_threshold step necessary? Do we actually modify it from the default?

Author: nope

asks how they can get started with Rasa X. The TEDPolicy correctly predicts that
Rasa X should be explained to the user, and then also takes them down the getting started
path, without asking all the qualifying questions first.

Since the ML policy generalized well in this situation, it makes sense to add this story
to your training data to continuously improve your bot and help the ML generalize even
better in future. `Rasa X <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/>`_ is a tool that can help
you improve your bot and make it more contextual.

.. note::
    Here's a minimal checklist of files we modified to handle more complex contextual conversations:

      - ``domain.yml``: 
          - set featurization of slots used by stories to guide the flow of a conversation
      - ``data/stories.md``: 
          - write stories using featurized slots to guide the flow of a conversation
          - add user conversations successfully handled by an ML policy as stories
      - ``config.yml`` (in the ``policies`` section): 
          - set ``max_history`` high enough to account for contextual patterns
          - replace the MemoizationPolicy with the AugmentedMemoizationPolicy

>           - add the TEDPolicy

Reviewer: not 100% sure it makes sense to have a checklist here as some of this section is a bit more arbitrary... Or what are your thougths on that?

Author: I agree - It's more like a set of recommendations in the section anyway. I'd rather take it out
